[WEBSITE-498] Announce Java 11 support GA (#2101)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2019/02/2019-02-08-let-s-celebrate-java-11-support.adoc

It also spurred the creation of the https://jenkins.io/sigs/platform[Platform Special Interest Group] to coordinate the Java 11 work and other platform support efforts.

== Celebration

We'd like to take a moment to thank everyone involved in these tasks: code contributors, issue reporters, testers, event planners and attendees and all those in the community who have generously lent their time and support to this effort.
Thank you all!

Here are some of the contributors who helped with this task (alphabetical order):

Alex Earl,
Alyssa Tong,
Baptiste Mathus,
Carlos Sanchez,
Daniel Beck,
David Aldrich,
Denis Digtyar,
Devin Nusbaum,
Emeric Vernat,
Evaristo Gutierrez,
Gianpaolo Macario,
Isabel Vilacides,
James Howe,
Jeff Pearce,
Jeff Thompson,
Jesse Glick,
Jonah Graham,
Kevin Earls,
Ksenia Nenasheva,
Kohsuke Kawaguchi,
Liam Newman,
Mandy Chung,
Mark Waite,
Nicolas De Loof,
Oleg Nenashev,
Oliver Gondža,
Olivier Lamy,
Olivier Vernin,
Paul Sandoz,
Ramón León,
Sam Van Oort,
Tobias Getrost,
Tracy Miranda,
Ulli Hafner,
Vincent Latombe,
Wadeck Follonier,

> 

Reviewer: Add a comment like "sorry if we missed anyone"?

== Guidelines

> Running Jenkins on Java 11 with Docker is simple.

Reviewer: Would be nice to reference other run options so that it does not look like Docker-only

== Celebration

We'd like to take a moment to thank everyone involved in these tasks: code contributors, issue reporters, testers, event planners and attendees and all those in the community who have generously lent their time and support to this effort.
Thank you all!

Here are some of the contributors who helped with this task (alphabetical order):

Alex Earl,
Alyssa Tong,
Baptiste Mathus,
Carlos Sanchez,
Daniel Beck,
David Aldrich,
Denis Digtyar,
Devin Nusbaum,
Emeric Vernat,
Evaristo Gutierrez,
Gianpaolo Macario,
Isabel Vilacides,
James Howe,
Jeff Pearce,
Jeff Thompson,
Jesse Glick,
Jonah Graham,
Kevin Earls,
Ksenia Nenasheva,
Kohsuke Kawaguchi,
Liam Newman,
Mandy Chung,
Mark Waite,
Nicolas De Loof,
Oleg Nenashev,
Oliver Gondža,
Olivier Lamy,
Olivier Vernin,
Paul Sandoz,
Ramón León,
Sam Van Oort,
Tobias Getrost,
Tracy Miranda,
Ulli Hafner,
Vincent Latombe,
Wadeck Follonier,

(We are deeply sorry if we missed anyone in this list.)

== Guidelines

In order to keep it simple, here is how you can start Jenkins on Java 11 using the Docker image.

> You can select a Java 11 based image by suffixing the tag of the image with `-jdk11`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can select a Java 11 based image by suffixing the tag of the image with `-jdk11`.
If you are upgrading an existing instance please read the link:/doc/administration/requirements/upgrade-java-guidelines/[Upgrading Jenkins Java version from 8 to 11] page before upgrading.
```

---
layout: post
title: "Let's celebrate Java 11 Support on Jenkins"
tags:
- core
- developer
- java11
- community
- platform-sig
author: alecharp
links:
  gitter: /jenkinsci/platform-sig
  googlegroup: jenkins-platform-sig
  sig: platform
---

NOTE: This is a joint blog post prepared by the Java 11 Support Team: Adrien Lecharpentier, Ashton Treadway, Baptiste Mathus, Jenn Briden, Kevin Earls, María Isabel Vilacides, Mark Waite, Ramón León and Oleg Nenashev.

image:/images/logos/formal/256.png[Jenkins Java, role=center, float=right]

We have worked hard for this and it's now here.

> We are thrilled to announce **full support for Java 11 in Jenkins** starting from Jenkins 2.164 and LTS 2.164.1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are thrilled to announce **full support for Java 11 in Jenkins** starting from Jenkins 2.164 (released on Feb 10, 2019) and LTS 2.164.1 (ETA: March 14th).
```

> This means you can now run your instance with a Java 11 JVM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means you can now run your Jenkins masters and agents with a Java 11 JVM.
```

Starting in June 2018, many events were organized to improve Jenkins code base and add Java 11 support.
Beyond these events, Core/Plugins maintainers and many other contributors have worked hard to make sure they discover and solve as many issues as possible related to Java 11 support.

The effort to support Java 11 led to the creation of the https://github.com/jenkinsci/jep/blob/master/jep/211/README.adoc[JEP-211: Java 10+ support in Jenkins].
It also spurred the creation of the https://jenkins.io/sigs/platform[Platform Special Interest Group] to coordinate the Java 11 work and other platform support efforts.

== Celebration

We'd like to take a moment to thank everyone involved in these tasks: code contributors, issue reporters, testers, event planners and attendees and all those in the community who have generously lent their time and support to this effort.
Thank you all!

Here are some of the contributors who helped with this task (alphabetical order):

Alex Earl,

> Alyssa Tong,

Reviewer: Add Ashton? Documentation contributions

Author: ```suggestion
Alyssa Tong,
Ashton Treadway,
```

In order to keep it simple, here is how you can start Jenkins on Java 11 using the Docker image.
You can select a Java 11 based image by suffixing the tag of the image with `-jdk11`.
If you are upgrading an existing instance please read the link:/doc/administration/requirements/upgrade-java-guidelines/[Upgrading Jenkins Java version from 8 to 11] page before upgrading.

So you can run Jenkins on Java 11 with:

[source, shell]
----
docker run -p 50000:50000 -p 8080:8080 jenkins/jenkins:2.164-jdk11
----

However, and as always, you can still start Jenkins with other methods.
Please see the more detailed documentation at link:/doc/administration/requirements/jenkins-on-java-11[Running Jenkins on Java 11].

== Developer guidelines

For developers involved in Jenkins development, you can find details on developing and testing Jenkins to run on Java 11 on the link:https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Java+11+Developer+Guidelines[Java 11 Developer Guidelines].

This resource regroups the modifications which might need to be done in order to validate the compatibility of plugins for Java 11.

== What's next

Even though this is a big achievement, we still have work to do.

> Our first priority is adding Java 11 support to link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkinsfile-runner[JenkinsFile Runner] project.

Reviewer: It is actually done, except some test automation

Author: yes, at the time I wrote this I thought it wasn't. Do you want to remove this?

Reviewer: I think we could keep it as is until it is announced

From there, we will move on to port Java 11 support to the link:https://github.com/jenkins-x[Jenkins X] project and the link:projects/evergreen/[Evergreen] project.

So, even if this is a big deal to us, this is not the end of the story.
It is a major step that will benefit users, developers, and members of the Jenkins community.

== Reference links

* link:/doc/administration/requirements/jenkins-on-java-11[Running Jenkins on Java 11]
* https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Known+Java+11+Compatibility+issues

> * https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Java+11+Developer+Guidelines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Java+11+Developer+Guidelines
* jep:211[Java 11 support in Jenkins]

```

---
layout: post
title: "Let's celebrate Java 11 Support on Jenkins"
tags:
- core
- developer
- java11
- community
- platform-sig
author: alecharp
links:
  gitter: /jenkinsci/platform-sig
  googlegroup: jenkins-platform-sig
  sig: platform
---

> NOTE: This is a joint blogpost prepared by the link:https://github.com/orgs/jenkinsci/teams/java11-support[Java 11 Support Team].

Reviewer: The team is not visible by non-org members. Would be better to add an explicit list of contributors

```suggestion
NOTE: This is a joint blogpost prepared by the Java 11 Support Team: John Doe, Fred Bloggs, Monsieur Durand, etc.
```

This means you can now run your instance on with a Java 11 JVM.

Since June 2018, many events were organized to improve the code base of Jenkins to support running on Java 11.
Outside of those events, Core and Plugins maintainers have worked hard to make sure to discover and solve issues related to Java 11.

The effort to support Java 11 lead to the creation of the https://github.com/jenkinsci/jep/blob/master/jep/211/README.adoc[JEP-211: Java 10+ support in Jenkins].
It also formed the https://jenkins.io/sigs/platform[Platform Special Interest Group] to coordinate the Java 11 work and other platform support efforts.

== Celebration

We'd like to take a moment to thank everyone involved in this tasks: code contributors, issue reporters, testers, event planners and everyone in the community who has been involved in this.
Thank you all!

// TODO: mosaic

== Guidelines

Running Jenkins on Java 11 with Docker is simple.
You can select a Java 11 based image by suffixing the tag of the image with `-jdk11`.

So you can run Jenkins on Java 11 with:

[source, shell]
----
docker run -p 50000:50000 -p 8080:8080 jenkins/jenkins:2.163-jdk11
----

> You can find more details on the specific documentation page: /doc/administration/requirements/jenkins-on-java-11#discovering-issues-with-java-11[Running Jenkins on Java 11].

Reviewer: `discovering-issues-with-java-11` looks like a good start :P

---
layout: post
title: "Let's celebrate Java 11 Support on Jenkins"
tags:
- core
- developer
- java11
- community
- platform-sig
author: alecharp
links:
  gitter: /jenkinsci/platform-sig
  googlegroup: jenkins-platform-sig
  sig: platform
---

> NOTE: This is a joint blogpost prepared by the Java 11 Support Team: Adrien Lecharpentier, Baptiste Mathus, Kevin Earl, Mark Waite, Ramon Leon, Oleg Nenashev, Maria Isabel Vilacides.

Reviewer 2: Earls. :-)

Oleg Nenashev, and Maria Isabell Vilacides

Author: I'm so sorry...

```suggestion
NOTE: This is a joint blogpost prepared by the Java 11 Support Team: Adrien Lecharpentier, Baptiste Mathus, Kevin Earls, Mark Waite, Ramon Leon, Oleg Nenashev, and Maria Isabel Vilacides.
```

> NOTE: This is a joint blogpost prepared by the Java 11 Support Team: Adrien Lecharpentier, Baptiste Mathus, Kevin Earl, Mark Waite, Ramon Leon, Oleg Nenashev, Maria Isabel Vilacides.

Reviewer 3: As you write the tildes below:
 ```suggestion
NOTE: This is a joint blogpost prepared by the Java 11 Support Team: Adrien Lecharpentier, Baptiste Mathus, Kevin Earls, Mark Waite, Ramón León, Oleg Nenashev and María Isabel Vilacides.
```

image:/images/logos/formal/256.png[Jenkins Java, role=center, float=right]

We have worked hard for this and it's now here.
We are happy to announce the **full support of Jenkins over Java 11**.

> This means you can now run your instance on with a Java 11 JVM.

Reviewer 2: You just need "with a Java 11 JVM", not "on with a Java 11 JVM"

Author: ```suggestion
This means you can now run your instance with a Java 11 JVM.
```

Since June 2018, many events were organized to improve the code base of Jenkins to support running on Java 11.

> Outside of those events, Core and Plugins maintainers have worked hard to make sure to discover and solve as many potential issues related to Java 11 as possible.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Outside of those events, Core and Plugins maintainers have worked hard to make sure they discover and solve as many potential issues related to Java 11 as possible.
```

Author: That I'm not sure.

Reviewer 4: 👍 for the proposed change

> The effort to support Java 11 lead to the creation of the https://github.com/jenkinsci/jep/blob/master/jep/211/README.adoc[JEP-211: Java 10+ support in Jenkins].

Reviewer 5: * `lead` => `led`

It also formed the https://jenkins.io/sigs/platform[Platform Special Interest Group] to coordinate the Java 11 work and other platform support efforts.

== Celebration

> We'd like to take a moment to thank everyone involved in this tasks: code contributors, issue reporters, testers, event planners and attendees and everyone in the community who has been involved in this.

Reviewer 2: "everyone involved in this task" or "everyone involved in these tasks"

Author: ```suggestion
We'd like to take a moment to thank everyone involved in these tasks: code contributors, issue reporters, testers, event planners and attendees and everyone in the community who has been involved in this.
```

> We'd like to take a moment to thank everyone involved in this tasks: code contributors, issue reporters, testers, event planners and attendees and everyone in the community who has been involved in this.

Reviewer 3: Take it carefully :wink: :

```suggestion
We'd like to take a moment to thank everyone involved in these tasks: code contributors, issue reporters, testers, event planners and attendees and everyone in the community who has been involved on this.
```

Author: Not based on grammatical forum I could see..

Reviewer 3: _tasks_ is plural, therefore _these_. Am I wrong? :thinking: :man_shrugging: 

https://learnenglish.britishcouncil.org/english-grammar/demonstratives

Thank you all!

Here are some of the contributors who helped with this task (alphabetical order):

Baptiste Mathus,
Daniel Beck,
David Aldrich,
Devin Nusbaum,
Evaristo Gutierrez,
James Howe,
Jeff Pearce,
Jesse Glick,
Kohsuke Kawaguchi,
Mark Waite,
Nicolas De Loof,
Oleg Nenashev,

> Olivier Gondža,

Reviewer 5: Oliver

> Ramón Leon,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Ramón León,
```

Author: sorry...

Sam Van Oort,
Ulli Hafner,
Wadeck Follonier,

> 

Reviewer 3: Isa and Kevin? they were mentioned previously

Author: In the team, but couldn't find commit from them. I might be wrong. 
As said in the commit message, list based on commit authors, ticket reporters

Reviewer 3: ok

== Guidelines

Running Jenkins on Java 11 with Docker is simple.
You can select a Java 11 based image by suffixing the tag of the image with `-jdk11`.

So you can run Jenkins on Java 11 with:

[source, shell]
----
docker run -p 50000:50000 -p 8080:8080 jenkins/jenkins:2.164-jdk11
----

You can find more details on the specific documentation page about link:/doc/administration/requirements/jenkins-on-java-11#discovering-issues-with-java-11[Running Jenkins on Java 11].

== What's next

We still have work to do.
We are working on the support of Java 11 on the link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkinsfile-runner[JenkinsFile Runner] project.

> From there, we will port the support to link:https://github.com/jenkins-x[Jenkins X] project.

Reviewer 5: missing `the` before "Jenkins X project" I think

We also have to work on the link:projects/evergreen/[Evergreen] project support for Java 11.

> So, even if this is a big deal to us, this is not the end of the story

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
So, even if this is a big deal to us, this is not the end of the story.
```

> It is more the first step which you, users, developers, member of this community, can really benefit from.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is more the first step which you, users, developers, members of this community, can really benefit from.
```

---
layout: post
title: "Let's celebrate Java 11 Support on Jenkins"
tags:
- core
- developer
- java11
- community
- platform-sig
author: alecharp
links:
  gitter: /jenkinsci/platform-sig
  googlegroup: jenkins-platform-sig
  sig: platform
---

> NOTE: This is a joint blogpost prepared by the Java 11 Support Team: Adrien Lecharpentier, Baptiste Mathus, Kevin Earls, Mark Waite, Ramón León, Oleg Nenashev and María Isabel Vilacides.

Reviewer 6: Suggest "blog post".

Reviewer 7: I suggest we add @jennbriden and @atreadway here

Author: ```suggestion
NOTE: This is a joint blog post prepared by the Java 11 Support Team: Adrien Lecharpentier, Ashton Treadway, Baptiste Mathus, Jenn Briden, Kevin Earls, María Isabel Vilacides, Mark Waite, Ramón León and Oleg Nenashev.
```

> NOTE: This is a joint blog post prepared by the Java 11 Support Team: Adrien Lecharpentier, Ashton Treadway, Baptiste Mathus, Jenn Briden, Kevin Earls, María Isabel Vilacides, Mark Waite, Ramón León and Oleg Nenashev.

Reviewer: Ashton and Jenn are not in the support team in GitHub. It might make sense to fix it or to somehow update the list prefix

image:/images/logos/formal/256.png[Jenkins Java, role=center, float=right]

We have worked hard for this and it's now here.

> We are thrilled to announce **full support for Java 11 in Jenkins**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are thrilled to announce **full support for Java 11 in Jenkins** starting from Jenkins 2.164 and LTS 2.164.1.
```

This means you can now run your instance with a Java 11 JVM.

> 

Reviewer 6: How would you feel about:
"We've worked hard on this and now it's here: we're thrilled to announce **full support for Java 11 in Jenkins!**" This means you can now run your Jenkins instance in a Java 11 JVM.

Since June 2018, many events were organized to improve the code base of Jenkins to support running on Java 11.
Outside of those events, Core and Plugins maintainers have worked hard to make sure they discover and solve as many potential issues related to Java 11 as possible.

> 

Reviewer 6: Starting in June 2018, many events were organize to improve the Jenkins code base and add Java 11 support. Beyond these events, Core and Plugin maintainers have worked hard to discover and solve as many issues as possible related to Java 11 support.

> Beyond these events, Core and Plugins maintainers have worked hard to make sure they discover and solve as many issues as possible related to Java 11 support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beyond these events, Core/Plugins maintainers and many other contributors have worked hard to make sure they discover and solve as many issues as possible related to Java 11 support.
```

The effort to support Java 11 led to the creation of the https://github.com/jenkinsci/jep/blob/master/jep/211/README.adoc[JEP-211: Java 10+ support in Jenkins].
It also formed the https://jenkins.io/sigs/platform[Platform Special Interest Group] to coordinate the Java 11 work and other platform support efforts.

> 

Reviewer 6: The effort to support Java 11 led to https://github.com/jenkinsci/jep/blob/master/jep/211/README.adoc[JEP-211: Java 10+ support in Jenkins], and also spurred the creation of the https://jenkins.io/sigs/platform[Platform Special Interest Group] to coordinate the Java 11 work *and other platform support efforts.

== Celebration

We'd like to take a moment to thank everyone involved in these tasks: code contributors, issue reporters, testers, event planners and attendees and everyone in the community who has been involved in this.

> Thank you all!

Reviewer 6: How about "and all those in the community who have generously lent their time and support to this effort"?

> Here are some of the contributors who helped with this task (alphabetical order):

Reviewer: This list is not complete. What is the best way to contribute to it ?

Reviewer: Also, GitHub IDs would be nice

Author: I guess the best way is to edit it now or after. For the Github IDs, why not but some contribution are not code / documentation related.

Baptiste Mathus,
Daniel Beck,
David Aldrich,
Devin Nusbaum,
Evaristo Gutierrez,
Isabel Vilacides,
James Howe,
Jeff Pearce,
Jesse Glick,
Kevin Earls,
Kohsuke Kawaguchi,
Mark Waite,
Nicolas De Loof,
Oleg Nenashev,
Oliver Gondža,
Ramón León,
Sam Van Oort,
Ulli Hafner,
Wadeck Follonier,

== Guidelines

Running Jenkins on Java 11 with Docker is simple.
You can select a Java 11 based image by suffixing the tag of the image with `-jdk11`.

So you can run Jenkins on Java 11 with:

[source, shell]
----
docker run -p 50000:50000 -p 8080:8080 jenkins/jenkins:2.164-jdk11
----

You can find more details on the specific documentation page about link:/doc/administration/requirements/jenkins-on-java-11#discovering-issues-with-java-11[Running Jenkins on Java 11].

> 

Reviewer 6: More detailed documentation can be found at link:/doc/administration/requirements/jenkins-on-java-11#discovering-issues-with-java-11[Running Jenkins on Java 11].

> More detailed documentation can be found at link:/doc/administration/requirements/jenkins-on-java-11#discovering-issues-with-java-11[Running Jenkins on Java 11].

Reviewer: Add a link to the upgrade guidelines?

Author: The link to this part of the documentation is on the first line of this link.

Reviewer: The tricky point is that somebody may change the Docker container according to the example above, without reading the detailed guidelines. And it may break the instance. I will add a proposal

```suggestion
More detailed documentation can be found at link:/doc/administration/requirements/jenkins-on-java-11[Running Jenkins on Java 11].
```

== What's next

We still have work to do.
We are working on the support of Java 11 on the link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkinsfile-runner[JenkinsFile Runner] project.
From there, we will port the support to the link:https://github.com/jenkins-x[Jenkins X] project.
We also have to work on the link:projects/evergreen/[Evergreen] project support for Java 11.

> 

Reviewer 6: Even though this is a big achievement, we still have work to do.

Our first priority is adding Java 11 support to the link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkinsfile-runner[JenkinsFile Runner] project. From there, we'll move on to port Java 11 support to the link:https://github.com/jenkins-x[Jenkins X] project and the link:projects/evergreen/[Evergreen] project.

So, even if this is a big deal to us, this is not the end of the story.

> It is more the first step which you, users, developers, members of this community, can really benefit from.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It a major step that will benefit users, developers, and members of the Jenkins community.
```

> == Reference links

Reviewer: Add a section for Developers with a link to developer guidelines?

Author: Isn't the third link what you are refering to?

Reviewer: My proposal was to have a section with its own header and several sentences so that it is more visible in the blogpost

We also have to work on the link:projects/evergreen/[Evergreen] project support for Java 11.

So, even if this is a big deal to us, this is not the end of the story.

> It a major step that will benefit users, developers, and members of the Jenkins community.

Reviewer 4: Sorry, I missed a word in the earlier suggestion.

> It a major step that will benefit users

should be

> It is a major step that will benefit users

Reviewer 6: So, even though this is a big deal for us, and a major improvement that benefits users, developers and members of the Jenkins community...it's not the end of the story.

Author: ```suggestion
It is a major step that will benefit users, developers, and members of the Jenkins community.
```
